---
title: Sight
description: Sight
published: 2015-01-08
image: images/posts/sight.webp
imageAlt: Sight
category: Default
tags: [doctor-who, knowledge, life, pensee, sight, wisdom]
---

> I don't want to see more things. I want to see the things in front of me more clearly.
>
> —- Danny Pink

It’s amazing how sometimes the most profound statements can be locked in away in somewhat tame conversations. They do this a lot in Doctor Who. Danny Pink really jumped out at me this past season when he said this.

<!--more-->

I’ve always tended to be a “jack of all trades, master of none” kind of guy. There is so much “there there” right?! I want to soak it all in, discover it all, see new places. I kind of like being that guy with a lot of random facts or interesting frameworks that people hadn’t heard about and pose a potential solution to a problem. I may only have a cursory knowledge of them, but I have that knowledge nonetheless.

But therein lies the rub. Does the cursory knowledge really help when you’re neck deep in a situation. Does it matter how many people I barely know the handful of people I deal with daily? I think often enough the person that the guru gets more respect for their deep knowledge, even if it is in one thing.

…but I want to know all the things!!!!!

Yes, there is a virtue in the continued discovery of things, not being afraid to be satisfied with simply what you know.

Maybe this is a new season that I’m beginning, because I’m starting to want to see in front of me more clearly.